# Lock Example Application

## Design
The lock example application uses the Weave Data Management protocol
(WDM) to enable remote access to state and control of a simulated door
lock.  The application implements the standard Nest-defined schema for a
consumer-grade bolt lock.  In particular, the application publishes the
`security.BoltLockTrait`, which it uses to expose the overall state of
the lock, and its bolt, to outside consumers.  In turn, the application
consumes the properties of the `security.BoltLockSettingsTrait` as
published by the Nest service.  These properties contain user-supplied
settings that configure the desired behavior of the device.

As part of implementing the BoltLockTrait, the application also responds
to `BoltLockChangeRequest` commands instructing it to change the state
of the bolt.  This provides the ability to remotely lock and unlock the
door.  To better simulate real lock hardware, the application
incorporates a short delay mimicking the actuation time of the bolt.

Whenever the state of the bolt changes, the application emits a
`BoltActuatorStateChangeEvent`.  This event describes the end result of
the change (bolt extended or retracted), when the change happened and
the actor or action that initiated it.  This is conveyed to the Nest
service in a reliable manner.

Together, the features of the lock example have been designed to
illustrate the four core interaction patterns typical of devices that
use Weave and the Weave Data Management protocol; namely:

* Publishing local state
* Subscribing to remote settings
* Reacting to received commands
* Emitting events


<a name="device-ui"></a>

## Device UI

The example application provides a simple UI that depicts the state of
the device and offers basic user control.  This UI is implemented via
the general-purpose LEDs and buttons built in to the nRF52840 DK.

**LED #1** shows the overall state of the device and its connectivity.
Four states are depicted:

* *Short Flash On (50ms on/950ms off)*: The device is in an unprovisioned (unpaired) state and is waiting for a commissioning application to connect.


* *Rapid Even Flashing (100ms on/100ms off)*: The device is in an unprovisioned state and a commissioning application is connected via BLE.


* *Short Flash Off (950ms on/50ms off)*: The device is full provisioned, but does not yet have full network (Thread) or service connectivity.


* *Solid On*: The device is fully provisioned and has full network and service connectivity.


**Button #1** can be used to initiate a OTA software update as well as
to reset the device to a default state.

A brief press of Button #1 instructs the device to perform a software
update query to the Nest service.  Should the service indicate a
software update is  available, the device will download the
corresponding software image file.  This feature is only available once
the device completed the pairing process. While software update is
running, another brief press on Button #1 will abort it.

Pressing and holding Button #1 for 6 seconds initiates a factory reset.
After an initial period of 3 seconds, all four LED will flash in unison
to signal the pending reset.  Holding the button past 6 seconds will
cause the device to reset its persistent configuration and initiate a
reboot.  The reset action can be cancelled by releasing the button at
any point before the 6 second limit.

**LED #2** shows the state of the simulated lock bolt.  When the LED is
lit the bolt is extended (i.e. door locked); when not lit, the bolt is
retracted (door unlocked).  The LED will flash whenever the simulated
bolt is in motion from one position to another.

**Button #2** can be used to change the state of the simulated bolt.
This can be used to mimic a user manually operating the lock.  The
button behaves as a toggle, swapping the state every time it is pressed.

The remaining two LEDs and buttons (#3 and #4) are unused.

## Platform-specific information

- [Nordic nRF5x](../../common/platforms/nrf5/README.md)
- [Silicon Labs EFR32](../../common/platforms/efr32/README.md)
